README.md, before:

# PyBer Analysis
Analyze and visualize ride-sharing data using the capabilities of Python, Pandas and Matplotlib within Jupyter Notebook.

## Module Project Overview
Steps and Deliverables:
- Import your data into a Pandas DataFrame.
- Merge your DataFrames.
- Create a bubble chart that showcases the average fare versus the total number of rides with bubble size based on the total number of drivers for three city types.
- Determine the mean, median, and mode for the following:
  - The total number of rides for each city type.
  - The average fares for each city type.
  - The total number of drivers for each city type.
- Create box-and-whisker plots that visualize each of the following to determine if there are any outliers:
  - The number of rides for each city type.
  - The fares for each city type.
  - The number of drivers for each city type.
- Create a pie chart that visualizes each of the following data for each city type:
  - The percent of total fares.
  - The percent of total rides.
  - The percent of total drivers.

## Module Project Summary
Data Visualizations for PyBer Project:

![Fig1](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig1.png)
![Fig2](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig2.png)
![Fig3](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig3.png)
![Fig4](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig4.png)
![Fig5](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig5.png)
![Fig6](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig6.png)
![Fig7](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig7.png)

## Challenge Overview
This new assignment for you and Omar consists of three parts: two additional technical analyses and a written report that delivers your results to the CEO. To summarize, you will submit the following deliverables:
- Technical Analysis Deliverable 1: A DataFrame that summarizes the key metrics for the ride-sharing data by 
- Technical Analysis Deliverable 2: A multiple-line chart, with one line for each city type, that shows the sum of the fares for each week.
- Delivering Results: A written report of your results, saved in a README.md document on your GitHub repository.

# PyBer Analysis Report

## Background and Results

### Purpose
Analyzing PyBer's vast collection of data, will help us improve access and determine the affordability of our rideshare services in underserved neighborhoods. This is necessary for identifying valuable investment opportunities for our company moving forward. 

### Technical Analysis
To perform this task, I utilized the capabilities of Python, Pandas and Matplotlib. This enabled efficient analysis of PyBer’s raw data by quickly sorting and comparing multiple variables and creating visualizations to outline the treads of our company’s performance and operations. 

### Results

![Table1](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Table1.png)
![Fig8](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig8.png)

### Summary
The table above shows a problematic trend that needs to be addessed. In urban cities, there are too many drivers for the avaliable riders in that area. To increase revenue along with rinder and driver statisfaction, urban drivers should be adivised to operate in suburban and rural areas nearby. This will better distribute the drivers according to demand. 

The graph above shows that the end of Febuary is a times where more revenue is generated in all areas. Suburban and rurel areas are more consistent in March while urban areas are much more volitle.  In the end of March and beginning of April, some suburban drivers sould operate in rurel areas nearby to help accomidate the higher demand at that time. 

## Challenges Encountered and Overcome

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered

* Programming

* Data analysis

* Graphing, etc

### Technical Analyses Used

## Recommendations and Next Steps

### Recommendations for Future Analysis

Average fare per ride and driver over the same time period. This will confirm if the the change in revenue is based on increased fare at that time or increased business.

### Additional Analysis 1

* Description of Approach

* Technical Steps

### Additional Analysis 2

* Description of Approach

* Technical Steps

Commit message:

Outlining Challenges, Difficulties and Additional Analysis

README.md, after:

# PyBer Analysis
Analyze and visualize ride-sharing data using the capabilities of Python, Pandas and Matplotlib within Jupyter Notebook.

## Module Project Overview
Steps and Deliverables:
- Import your data into a Pandas DataFrame.
- Merge your DataFrames.
- Create a bubble chart that showcases the average fare versus the total number of rides with bubble size based on the total number of drivers for three city types.
- Determine the mean, median, and mode for the following:
  - The total number of rides for each city type.
  - The average fares for each city type.
  - The total number of drivers for each city type.
- Create box-and-whisker plots that visualize each of the following to determine if there are any outliers:
  - The number of rides for each city type.
  - The fares for each city type.
  - The number of drivers for each city type.
- Create a pie chart that visualizes each of the following data for each city type:
  - The percent of total fares.
  - The percent of total rides.
  - The percent of total drivers.

## Module Project Summary
Data Visualizations for PyBer Project:

![Fig1](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig1.png)
![Fig2](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig2.png)
![Fig3](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig3.png)
![Fig4](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig4.png)
![Fig5](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig5.png)
![Fig6](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig6.png)
![Fig7](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig7.png)

## Challenge Overview
This new assignment for you and Omar consists of three parts: two additional technical analyses and a written report that delivers your results to the CEO. To summarize, you will submit the following deliverables:
- Technical Analysis Deliverable 1: A DataFrame that summarizes the key metrics for the ride-sharing data by 
- Technical Analysis Deliverable 2: A multiple-line chart, with one line for each city type, that shows the sum of the fares for each week.
- Delivering Results: A written report of your results, saved in a README.md document on your GitHub repository.

# PyBer Analysis Report

## Background and Results

### Purpose
Analyzing PyBer's vast collection of data, will help us improve access and determine the affordability of our rideshare services in underserved neighborhoods. This is necessary for identifying valuable investment opportunities for our company moving forward. 

### Technical Analysis
To perform this task, I utilized the capabilities of Python, Pandas and Matplotlib. This enabled efficient analysis of PyBer’s raw data by quickly sorting and comparing multiple variables and creating visualizations to outline the treads of our company’s performance and operations. 

### Results

![Table1](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Table1.png)
![Fig8](https://github.com/ejlaflure/PyBer_Analysis/blob/master/Analysis/Fig8.png)

### Summary
The table above shows a problematic trend that needs to be addessed. In urban cities, there are too many drivers for the avaliable riders in that area. To increase revenue along with rider and driver statisfaction, urban drivers should be adivised to operate in suburban and rural areas nearby. This will better distribute the drivers according to demand. 

The graph above shows that the end of Febuary is a times where more revenue is generated in all areas. Suburban and rurel areas are more consistent in March while urban areas are much more volitle.  During the end of March and beginning of April, some suburban drivers sould operate in rurel areas nearby to help accomidate the higher demand. 

## Challenges Encountered and Overcome

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered

* Programming

Issue with the resampling method.

* Data analysis

* Graphing, etc

Graphing table to generate image. 

### Technical Analyses Used

Researched resampling method and pandas table generation capabilities. 

## Recommendations and Next Steps

### Recommendations for Future Analysis

Performing analysis that identify issues in meeting demand is most important for beter utilizing divers and increasing revenue. 

### Additional Analysis 1

* Description of Approach
Average fare per ride and driver over the same time period. This will confirm if the the change in revenue is based on increased fare at that time or increased business. 

* Technical Steps
Overlay Average fare per ride and driver on the y-axis and have time on x axis.

### Additional Analysis 2

* Description of Approach
Overlay averade riders, drivers and fares per city to see if there are particulare cities that have issues with demand or lack there of.

* Technical Steps
Use unique fuction to see how many cities there are. This will give an idea of if this graph is useful. We would use a multi layered bar chart for this analysis.
